# Plan of Action

For my work in this class, I hope to make contributions to the [**rustworkx**](https://github.com/Qiskit/rustworkx) project, a Rust implementation of the famous [**NetworkX**](https://github.com/networkx/networkx) library often used in Network Science (NS). I will note that my motivation for this particular project is in part due to prior exposure to NS, and NetworkX in particular, so I believe it is a good fit for both personal and academic goals for this class. I am also particularly interested in how they managed to integrate Rust into a Python library (even though it’s written in Rust, it's a Python Library), which might be trivial but it is not something I have had experience with in the past.

To address some of the questions provided in the HW instructions, the codebase is primarily written in **Python** (mostly for scripting purposes from my limited overview) and **Rust** (which holds the core logic). I have a fair amount of exposure in both so I do not anticipate any issues on that end.

The documentation for building from source exists (in the main Readme), though a little bit sparse (you can build the project using `pip`). To that point, I will need to get a better look into the codebase as to how this actually works (how exactly does `pip` facilitate building the necessary Rust crates, which relates to the integration of Rust and Python).

In terms of issues that seem appealing to me, I think that a good beginning exercise would be porting some features from **NetworkX** to **rustworkx** (since they do not have feature-parity yet), and there are a couple of open issues (that also have `good-first-issue` tag), that address this specifically. This issue references some graph composition operations that could be ported to rustworkx. My immediate observation is that this issue was opened in **Sept, 2021**, and that some progress has been made (latest commit in regards to this issue was in **Mar, 2022**). The to-do list is fairly incomplete, so there is a decent amount of things I could try and take forward, though I suspect that I would need to do prior research on the algorithms in question, or possibly just do a rewrite from the Python equivalent (if it exists, which I assume it should). Nevertheless, I am willing to take a pass at this.

